JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to another
in our Brief But Spectacular
series, where we ask people
to describe their passions.
Five-and-a-half million
Americans are living
with Alzheimer's disease,
and another 15 million
serve as their
unpaid caregivers.
Tonight, two individuals
diagnosed with Alzheimer's,
Chris Hannafan and Pam
Montana, share their
experiences.
CHRIS HANNAFAN, Living
With Alzheimer's: I am 66.
I was diagnosed when I was 65.
PAM MONTANA, Living With
Alzheimer's: I was diagnosed
initially in November of 2015.
And I think I'm getting
the dates right.
Part of my issue is my dates
sometimes mush together.
CHRIS HANNAFAN: Yes, I know
exactly what we're doing.
I know you're Steve.
I know you're Zack.
We're here in Pine
Street, finally.
(LAUGHTER)
PAM MONTANA: On July 20 of
last year, I received the
official diagnosis, with
17 research physicians
and doctors in the room,
myself, my husband and my two
children, with the diagnosis of
early-onset,
early-stage Alzheimer's.
QUESTION: You can
take a minute or two.
PAM MONTANA: Every
time I say it.
CHRIS HANNAFAN: The way
I explain it to people
is, I am in a new life.
My former life no longer
exists, and it's up to
me to create a new life.
PAM MONTANA: I knew
something was wrong.
It's not normal to not be able
to calculate a tip anymore.
It's not normal to not do math
in your head and to be able
to subtract or add numbers.
It's not normal to not remember
conversations or to attend a
training class and not remember
what was taught.
CHRIS HANNAFAN: More and
more words are going away.
And there are a number of words
that, no matter how I remember
them, they are not there.
I could say, OK, now I have
got it, and, two minutes
later, I won't have it.
PAM MONTANA: With Alzheimer's,
you don't have an option.
You just -- it's just not there.
The information is just gone.
CHRIS HANNAFAN: It seems to
be particularly difficult for
those of us with Alzheimer's
early-onset to have --
sorry -- I got a little bit.
OK, where was I?
PAM MONTANA: Frustrating is
the word that comes to mind.
I am frustrated with the fact
that I don't know what 32
minus seven is without a pen
and paper.
It frustrates me that I
have no idea what today is,
but I do know it's Friday.
CHRIS HANNAFAN: The first
thing I lost was my car.
So, I was no longer able to
use my car for various reasons.
I got a bicycle.
And I have had two
crashes with that.
And I think part
of that is spatial.
PAM MONTANA: Now
I have a new job.
And that job is to be loud
and proud about my disease, to
share my symptoms with everyone
and anyone who
will listen to me.
CHRIS HANNAFAN: I'm
able to be useful.
I'm able to have -- to surround
myself with a lot of people,
which is absolutely the most
important thing you can
do with Alzheimer's.
PAM MONTANA: Everyone
always tells me I look good.
Well, what does that
have to do with anything?
I keep saying to people,
I'm going to walk around
in a bathrobe with
a towel on my head,
you know, no makeup, just an old
hag, and then maybe then they
will think I have Alzheimer's.
But this is what
Alzheimer's looks like.
It looks like me.
CHRIS HANNAFAN: My
name is Chris Hannafan.
PAM MONTANA: My
name is Pam Montana.
And this is my Brief
But Spectacular take...
CHRIS HANNAFAN: Brief
But Spectacular take.
PAM MONTANA: ... on
living with Alzheimer's.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thank you, Chris
and Pam, for sharing with all
of us what you're going through.
Wow.